#10539 applied style writing guidelines to tools.rst (#10632)
bokeh/bokeh: sphinx/source/docs/user_guide/tools.rst

.. _userguide_tools_specifying_tools:

Specifying tools
----------------

> At the lowest ``bokeh.models`` level, tools are added to a ``Plot`` by

Reviewer: Generally, I try to include the brackets "()" when talking about a function or method (as opposed to an argument or property, for example). So I'd say it should be "``add_tools()`` method" in this section (instead of ``add_tools``). I'm aware that we are not really consistent with this throughout the documentation, and it seem that in this section, we had not included the brackets in the past.
@bryevdv, what do you think?

    tools = "pan,wheel_zoom,box_zoom,reset"

This method does not allow setting properties of the tools.

Finally, it is possible to add new tools to a plot by passing
a tool object to the ``add_tools`` method of a plot. This can be done

> in conjunction with the ``tools`` keyword described above:

Reviewer: Avoiding passive voice can sometimes also lead to shorter sentences. For example:

>You also have the option to add more tools to an existing plot by using the ``add_tools()`` method of your plot. You can combine the ``add_tools()`` method with the ``figure()`` function's ``tools`` argument:

Also, I'd recommend choosing more common English words (such as "combine") over less frequently used ones ("conjunction") - keeping in mind that many users of Bokeh and of Bokeh's docs don't use English as their first language.

Field names that begin with ``@`` are associated with columns in a
``ColumnDataSource``. For instance, the field name ``"@price"`` will display
values from the ``"price"`` column whenever a hover is triggered. If the hover

> is for the 17th glyph, then the hover tooltip will display the 17th price value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is for the 17th glyph instance, then the hover tooltip will display the 17th price value.
```

This has always been a bit imprecise, but as long as we are editing this file, I think the above is a slight improvements. 

@tcmetzger this is actually maybe something good for your Glossary. We have never nailed down any concrete consistent terminology to distinguish "glyph" the object that can draw a bunch of vectorized visuals, and "glyph" one of the individual visuals that gets draw. But this is an important thing to be able to distinguish.

Reviewer: That definitely helps to make it clearer!

Note that if a column name contains spaces, it must be surrounded by

> curly braces; e.g. ``@{adjusted close}`` will display values

Reviewer 2: I think we should semicolons generally (even though I personally like them) and I know @tcmetzger would have all my e.g.'s stricken :) 
```suggestion
curly braces. For example, configuring ``@{adjusted close}`` will display values
```

Reviewer: Indeed! 😀

Reviewer: BTW, the Google style guide is not completely anti semicolon. They just recommend to use semicolons "judiciously" (https://developers.google.com/style/semicolons). And yes, in this case here a period just works better!

.. _userguide_tools_formatting_tooltip_fields:

Formatting tooltip fields
'''''''''''''''''''''''''

> By default, values for fields (e.g. ``@foo``) are displayed in a basic numeric

Reviewer: Same thing here - to make reading as easy as possible, I'd recommend using English terms instead of Latin ones (https://developers.google.com/style/abbreviations#dont-use). So:

> values for fields (``@foo``, for example) are displayed in ...

    r2 = p.rect('x', 'y', 'width', 'height', source=source2)
    tool = BoxEditTool(renderers=[r1, r2])

The tool automatically modifies the columns on the data source
corresponding to the ``x``, ``y``, ``width``, and ``height`` values of
the glyph. Any additional columns in the data source will be padded
with the declared ``empty_value`` when adding a new box. When drawing
a new box, the data will always be added to the ``ColumnDataSource`` on
the first supplied renderer.

It is often useful to limit the number of elements that can be

> drawn, e.g. when specifying a specific number of regions of interest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
drawn. For example, when you want to specify certain regions of interest.
```

Reviewer: Well, thinking about it, I wonder if we should be a little clearer with what we mean by this. How about:

> For example, when you want to limit the option to use the BoxEditTool to certain regions of interest.

Did I understand the idea here correctly, @bryevdv?

Using the ``num_objects`` property, you can ensure that once the limit
has been reached, the oldest box will be popped off the queue to make
space for the newest box being added.

.. raw:: html

    <img src="https://docs.bokeh.org/static/box_edit_keyboard_optimized.gif"

>      width='400px' alt="Animation showing box draw, select and delete actions">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     width='400px' alt="Animation showing box draw, select, and delete actions">
```

It is also often useful to limit the number of elements that can be

> drawn, e.g. when specifying a specific number of regions of interest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
drawn. For example, when you want to specify certain regions of interest.
```

Reviewer: Also see my comment about the BoxEditTool section above. We might want to be a little clearer here by saying:

> For example, when you want to limit the option to use the FreehandDrawTool to certain regions of interest.

* name: ``'point_draw'``
* menu icon: |point_draw_icon|

The ``PointDrawTool()`` allows you to add, drag, and delete point-like
glyphs (of ``XYGlyph`` type) on one or more renderers by editing the
underlying ``ColumnDataSource`` data. Like other drawing tools,
you must pass the renderers to be edited as a list:

.. code-block:: python

    c1 = p.circle('x', 'y', 'width', 'height', source=source)
    r1 = p.rect('x', 'y', 0.1, 0.1, source=source2)
    tool = PointDrawTool(renderers=[c1, r1])

The tool automatically modifies the columns on the data source
corresponding to the ``x`` and ``y`` values of the glyph. Any
additional columns in the data source will be padded with the declared
``empty_value`` when adding a new point. Any newly added points will
be inserted in the ``ColumnDataSource`` of the first supplied

> renderer.

Author: Let me know what you guys think of the latest edits... I struggled on the sections like this one, so if you have any suggestions I'd love to hear them!

    r1 = p.rect('x', 'y', 0.1, 0.1, source=source2)
    tool = PointDrawTool(renderers=[c1, r1])

The tool automatically modifies the columns on the data source
corresponding to the ``x`` and ``y`` values of the glyph. Any
additional columns in the data source will be padded with the declared

> ``empty_value``, when adding a new point. Any newly added points will

Reviewer: regarding line 818: there is another "we" that should be replaced ("Using the ``num_objects`` property, we can ensure that")

>      width='400px' alt="Animation showing point draw, drag, select and delete actions">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     width='400px' alt="Animation showing point draw, drag, select, and delete actions">
```

tools, the renderers that are to be edited must be supplied explicitly
as a list.

The tool automatically modifies the columns on the data source
corresponding to the ``xs`` and ``ys`` values of the glyph. Any
additional columns in the data source will be padded with the declared

> ``empty_value``, when adding a new point. Any newly added patch or

Reviewer: re line 879 below: another "we" to replace ("Using the ``num_objects`` property, we can ensure that once")

>      width='400px' alt="Animation showing polygon draw, select and delete actions">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     width='400px' alt="Animation showing polygon draw, select, and delete actions">
```

.. _userguide_tools_lod:

Controlling level of detail
---------------------------

Although the HTML canvas can comfortably display tens or even hundreds of
thousands of glyphs, doing so can have adverse effects on interactive
performance. In order to accommodate large data sizes, Bokeh plots offer
"Level of Detail" (LOD) capability in the client.

.. note::
    Another option when dealing with very large data volumes is to use the
    Bokeh Server to perform downsampling on data before it is sent to the
    browser. Such an approach is unavoidable past a certain data size. See
    :ref:`userguide_server` for more information.

To maintain performance while handling large data sizes, the plot only draws

> a small fraction of data points during interactive operations (e.g. panning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a small fraction of data points during interactive operations (panning or zooming, for example)
```
